Deb Bootcamp Week 1

The Culture of Dev Bootcamp: On Not Taking a Seat at the Table

November 21, 2014

Shereef Bishay's message to initiates of Phase 0 explains the founding of Dev Bootcamp and the evolving culture of the place. (https://vimeo.com/85001014) Before answering student questions, he presents a vision of the place as working more like a kitchen than a restuarant. Students pay the check and then roll up their sleeves. He encourages students to get beyond the consumer approach to education. It's not very fun, it limits group activity, and it's not really even that effective for learning how to do something new. He also calls out another habit. Some students fear that everyone else will be better. And some students fear that everyone else will be slower. He's even seen students who hold both fears at once. As a champion of the 'imposter syndrome', I sat up straight and listened for the solution. Don't worry, he says. We are all equally imposters. We are all beginners in the journey to become great at programming.

I like this tradition of the fireside chat. We have Roosevelt to thank for it. As Dwight Eisenhower was the first to televise his addresses, I was sure I could find a clip from that man on the dime to warm me up a little. (http://www.c-span.org/video/?200504-1/dwight-d-eisenhower-presidential-library) The hopes and fears of the tech world of 2014 and Eisenhower's America are not so far apart. Times were good and jobs were plentiful but there was much work to be done. And what about the fear of the unknown? The clip I found was actually a dialog between Eisenhower and Howard MacMillan, the then prime minister of the UK. (https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=b5Sx3YSLJHM). MacMillan considers the moral obligation of great nations (awesome programmers?) to the ones who are in need (the rest of us?). His pair goes in a slightly different direction. Well, in terms of foreign policy, the difference is fairly great. Eisenhower responds by quoting from an unnamed Frenchman: "freedom is merely the opportunity to practice self-discipline".

How then to break free from the imposter syndrome that appears to take self-discipline so seriously? There's one commonality between the worried tortoise students and the impatient rabbit students. The internal dialog about feeling like an imposter couldn't go on if we weren't allowed to speculate about what other people think. The tortoise thinks the others want him to be a rabbit. The rabbit thinks the others want him to be a tortoise. What if we were to acknowledge that we are all merely getting the opportunity to practice self-discipline? Choosing to use the command line instead of the file manager is an expression of self discipine. I'm also putting integrity, kindness and right effort in the self-discipline word cloud.

